

                                .::   .::         .::
                             .::   .:: .::       .::
                            .::         .::     .::
                            .::          .::   .::
                            .::           .:: .::
                             .::   .::     .::::
                               .::::        .::


  johan [at] egneblad [dot] se


  Working experiences
  -------------------

    October 2023 - Present
    Senior Developer at Metrea Simulations, Stockholm

    Working with libraires, tools and pipelines for terrain generation for a
    professional flight simulator. Languages include C++, Python and C#.


    January 2022 - October 2023
    Product Owner, later also Business Data Architect and Software Developer
    at Nepa Stockholm

    Continuing my career within Nepa, I took on the role as Product Owner for
    the internal product I had spent five years building by then. To learn this
    new roll I enrolled a Product Manager course and read books. I learned how
    to structure and prioritize the development of a small team. After getting
    more comfortable is this role I took on other parallel responsibilities,
    first as a Business Data Architect, a role appointed to me because of my
    engagement in the future of Nepa's data pipelines and data formats. After a
    while I felt I needed to program more, so I also joined a development team
    part time in March 2023.


    September 2016 - December 2021
    Advanced Analyst/Data Scientist at Nepa London/Stockholm

    Working with retailers, media companies and FMCG (fast moving consumer
    goods) to help them better understand the impact of marketing strategies
    as well as logistics through statistical analysis and machine learning.
    This position was mainly about software development for internal tools,
    both backend and frontend (desktop). I used C# and Python.


    February 2016 - September 2016
    System Engineer at Vizrt, London

    Getting an opportunity to move to London with my girlfriend I once again
    took on the role as System Engineer. Now being based in London, the job
    offered me to work for some of the largest broadcasters in the world,
    helping them to structure and polish their media workflows. I also had
    the opportunity to build more sophisticated additions to the SDK.


    June 2015 - January 2016
    Software Developer and Scrum Master at Vizrt, Stockholm

    With new knowledge and experience I came back to R&D as Scrum Master and
    developer for a small team of five people. The target was again Viz One and
    especially its back end and their rest APIs. I also got to work more in
    depth with video formats and various video operations.


    May 2013 - June 2015
    System Engineer at Vizrt, Stockholm

    To learn more about the field I decided to join the Professional Services
    team as a System Engineer, which allowed me to work closer to the customers
    and by doing so learn more about what they need and want. Tasks included
    are installation of multi-server systems and also development of custom
    integrations and business logic (the part I enjoyed the most). During this
    period I started to develop what would later become the official Python
    SDK for the Viz One APIs.


    May 2011 - May 2013
    Software Developer at Vizrt, Stockholm

    My first two years at Vizrt included development of the product Ardome and
    it successor Viz One. They are Media Asset Management (MAM) system for use
    mainly in the television broadcast industry. Amongst its users are several
    of both the global and local actors of the field. The challenge of working
    with this product is mainly that it is a fairly large and heavily
    distributed system which have to handle simultaneous operations from users
    and business logic while keeping the data consistent and available.
    Techniques involved are ActiveMQ, Memcached, Solr, Apache, Nginx, DB2 and
    Oracle and it all runs on Enterprice Linux hosts.


  Education
  ---------

    2006 - 2012
    Design and Production Realisation, Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm
    with a Master in Mechatronics

    2005 - 2006
    Military Service, S1, Enkoping
    Electronic Warfare

    2002 - 2005
    High School, Science, Rinman, Eskilstuna


  Programming Languages
  ---------------------

    Used on a weekly basis:

    - C#
    - Python
    - JavaScript/HTML/CSS
    - SQL
    - Bash

    I have also worked with these languages in the past:

    - Perl
    - C
    - C++
    - R


  Technologies
  ------------

    - Linux (SLES, Redhat, Ubuntu, Fedora, Debian)
    - Databases (DB2, Oracle, MS SQL Server, AlloyDB, MongoDB, SQLite3)
    - Message Queues (ActiveMQ)
    - Search Engine (Solr)
    - Source Control (git, bzr, svn)
    - VIM
    - Windows


  Languages
  ---------

    - Swedish (native)
    - English (fluent)
    - German (limited)


  Voluntary Commissions
  ---------------------

    2010 - 2011
    Chairman of the Machine Design Chapter at KTH (Royal Institute of
    Technology)

    The Machine Design Chapter is a Student Union organisation with around 1200
    members. The work as chairman includes leading board meetings and also a
    number of public speeches and larger meetings. Together with board, various
    events are arranged.


    2009 - 2010
    Chairman of the Machine Design Chapters Board of Education at KTH

    The Board of Education works for improving the courses at the university
    through continuously evaluating and collecting other student's views for
    sharing with professors and administration.


